README.md, before:

# subwasm

![badge](https://github.com/chevdor/subwasm/actions/workflows/quick-check.yml/badge.svg?branch=master)

![Logo 1024](resources/logos/Logo_1024.png)

Unfortunately, the crate of the project and its dependencies are squatted on crates.io. The squatter remains unresponsive and the crates.io team does not care. I strongly recommend NOT to install the old version from crates.io. Check the [Install](#_install) chapter below to see how to install from this repo or use the official binary packages.

## Introduction

The metadata of a given runtime is a critical piece of information as it describes how one can interact with the runtime, what operations are possible and what are the signatures of the calls. It contains the exhaustive list of all the features publicly exposed by the runtime.

This tool only works with Substrate-based runtimes which are `>=V11`. For earlier versions, you’ll need to connect to an archive node.

Any node can be queried to provide its current metadata. This can be displayed in json format for instance. This is a great way to have a peek at what the runtime can do.

## Sample runs

![subwasm get](scripts/demos/gif/demo-get.gif)

![subwasm info](scripts/demos/gif/demo-info.gif)

![subwasm meta](scripts/demos/gif/demo-meta.gif)

![subwasm diff](scripts/demos/gif/demo-diff.gif)

## Capabilities

`subwasm` allows:

-   getting the latest metadata from a running node

-   getting the latest runtime (wasm) from a running node

-   getting runtime and metadata at any point of time using a Block hash as reference

-   getting the metadata from a a wasm file without any node

-   extracting information (those not requiring storage) from a runtime as wasm file

-   (de)compress a given runtime WASM

## Install

### Using Cargo

    cargo install --locked --git https://github.com/chevdor/subwasm --tag v0.16.1

### Homebrew

MacOS Homebrew users can use:

    brew tap chevdor/subwasm https://github.com/chevdor/subwasm
    brew install subwasm

### Linux

    wget https://github.com/chevdor/subwasm/releases/download/v0.16.1/subwasm_linux_amd64_v0.16.1 -O subwasm.deb
    sudo dpkg -i subwasm.deb
    subwasm --help

## Usage

### Command: --help

    subwasm 0.17.1
    chevdor <chevdor@gmail.com>:Wilfried Kopp <wilfried@parity.io
    `subwasm` allows fetching, parsing and calling some methods on WASM runtimes of Substrate based
    chains

    USAGE:
        subwasm [OPTIONS] <SUBCOMMAND>

    OPTIONS:
        -h, --help       Print help information
        -j, --json       Output as json
        -q, --quiet      Less output
        -V, --version    Print version information

    SUBCOMMANDS:
        compress      Compress a given runtime wasm file. You will get an error if you try
                          compressing a runtime that is already compressed
        decompress    Decompress a given runtime wasm file. You may pass a runtime that is
                          uncompressed already. In that case, you will get the same content as output.
                          This is useful if you want to decompress "no matter what" and don't really
                          know whether the input will be compressed or not
        diff          Compare 2 runtimes
        get           Get/Download the runtime wasm from a running node through rpc
        help          Print this message or the help of the given subcommand(s)
        info          The `info` command returns summarized information about a runtime
        metadata      Returns the metadata as a json object. You may also use the "meta" alias

### Command: get

    subwasm-get 0.17.1
    chevdor <chevdor@gmail.com>:Wilfried Kopp <wilfried@parity.io
    Get/Download the runtime wasm from a running node through rpc

    USAGE:
        subwasm get [OPTIONS] [URL]

    ARGS:
        <URL>    The node url including (mandatory) the port number. Example: ws://localhost:9944 or
                 http://localhost:9933 [default: http://localhost:9933]

    OPTIONS:
        -b, --block <BLOCK>      The optional block where to fetch the runtime. That allows fetching
                                 older runtimes but you will need to connect to archive nodes.
                                 Currently, you must pass a block hash. Passing the block numbers is not
                                 supported
            --chain <CHAIN>      Provide the name of a chain and a random url amongst a list of known
                                 nodes will be used. If you pass a valid --chain, --url will be ignored
                                 --chain local = http://localhost:9933
        -h, --help               Print help information
        -j, --json               Output as json
        -o, --output <OUTPUT>    You may specifiy the output filename where the runtime will be saved.
                                 If not provided, we will figure out an appropriate default name based
                                 on a counter: runtime_NNN.wasm where NNN is incrementing to make sure
                                 you do not override previous runtime. If you specify an existing file
                                 as output, it will be overwritten
        -V, --version            Print version information

### Command: info

    subwasm-info 0.17.1
    chevdor <chevdor@gmail.com>:Wilfried Kopp <wilfried@parity.io
    The `info` command returns summarized information about a runtime

    USAGE:
        subwasm info [OPTIONS] [SOURCE]

    ARGS:
        <SOURCE>    The wasm file to load. It can be a path on your local filesystem such as
                    /tmp/runtime.wasm or a node url such as http://localhost:9933 or
                    ws://localhost:9944 [default: runtime_000.wasm]

    OPTIONS:
        -b, --block <BLOCK>    The optional block where to fetch the runtime. That allows fetching older
                               runtimes but you will need to connect to archive nodes. Currently, you
                               must pass a block hash. Passing the block numbers is not supported
            --chain <CHAIN>    Provide the name of a chain and a random url amongst a list of known
                               nodes will be used. If you pass a valid --chain, --url will be ignored
                               --chain local = http://localhost:9933
        -h, --help             Print help information
        -j, --json             Output as json
        -V, --version          Print version information

By default, the ID for the Parachain pallet is expected to be `0x01`. This default behavior can be overriden by setting the `PARACHAIN_PALLET_ID_ENV` to the ID of your parachain pallet.

### Command: meta

    subwasm-metadata 0.17.1
    chevdor <chevdor@gmail.com>:Wilfried Kopp <wilfried@parity.io
    Returns the metadata as a json object. You may also use the "meta" alias

    USAGE:
        subwasm metadata [OPTIONS] [SOURCE]

    ARGS:
        <SOURCE>    The wasm file to load. It can be a path on your local filesystem such as
                    /tmp/runtime.wasm or a node url such as http://localhost:9933 or
                    ws://localhost:9944 [default: runtime_000.wasm]

    OPTIONS:
        -b, --block <BLOCK>      The optional block where to fetch the runtime. That allows fetching
                                 older runtimes but you will need to connect to archive nodes.
                                 Currently, you must pass a block hash. Passing the block numbers is not
                                 supported
            --chain <CHAIN>      Provide the name of a chain and a random url amongst a list of known
                                 nodes will be used. If you pass a valid --chain, --url will be ignored
                                 --chain local = http://localhost:9933
        -h, --help               Print help information
        -j, --json               Output as json
        -m, --module <MODULE>    Without this flag, the metadata command display the list of all
                                 modules. Using this flag, you will only see the module of your choice
                                 and a few details about it
        -V, --version            Print version information

### Command: diff

    subwasm-diff 0.17.1
    chevdor <chevdor@gmail.com>:Wilfried Kopp <wilfried@parity.io
    Compare 2 runtimes

    USAGE:
        subwasm diff [OPTIONS] [ARGS]

    ARGS:
        <SRC_A>    The first source [default: runtime_000.wasm]
        <SRC_B>    The second source [default: runtime_001.wasm]

    OPTIONS:
        -a, --chain-a <CHAIN_A>    Provide the name of a chain and a random url amongst a list of known
                                   nodes will be used. If you pass a valid --chain, --url will be
                                   ignored --chain local = http://localhost:9933
        -b, --chain-b <CHAIN_B>    Provide the name of a chain and a random url amongst a list of known
                                   nodes will be used. If you pass a valid --chain, --url will be
                                   ignored --chain local = http://localhost:9933
        -h, --help                 Print help information
        -j, --json                 Output as json
        -V, --version              Print version information

### Command: compress

    subwasm-compress 0.17.1
    chevdor <chevdor@gmail.com>:Wilfried Kopp <wilfried@parity.io
    Compress a given runtime wasm file. You will get an error if you try compressing a runtime that is
    already compressed

    USAGE:
        subwasm compress [OPTIONS] <INPUT> <OUTPUT>

    ARGS:
        <INPUT>     The path of uncompressed wasm file to load
        <OUTPUT>    The path of the file where the compressed runtime will be stored

    OPTIONS:
        -h, --help       Print help information
        -j, --json       Output as json
        -V, --version    Print version information

### Command: decompress

    subwasm-decompress 0.17.1
    chevdor <chevdor@gmail.com>:Wilfried Kopp <wilfried@parity.io
    Decompress a given runtime wasm file. You may pass a runtime that is uncompressed already. In that
    case, you will get the same content as output. This is useful if you want to decompress "no matter
    what" and don't really know whether the input will be compressed or not

    USAGE:
        subwasm decompress [OPTIONS] <INPUT> <OUTPUT>

    ARGS:
        <INPUT>     The path of the compressed or uncompressed wasm file to load
        <OUTPUT>    The path of the file where the uncompressed runtime will be stored

    OPTIONS:
        -h, --help       Print help information
        -j, --json       Output as json
        -V, --version    Print version information

## Sample runs

**Fetch a runtime from a running node**

We will start by fetching the runtime from a node.

Please note that you will likely need to connect to an **archive** node to retrieve an older runtime (`<V11`). A runtime takes around 2MB of storage on-chain and thus, older versions are pruned and will no longer be accessible if you are connecting to a non-archive node.

**Here we get the latest version of the runtime, the 3 commands do the same since they all use the default values:**

    subwasm get
    subwasm get --url http://localhost:9933
    subwasm get --url http://localhost:9933 --output runtime_000.wasm

**Here we get an older runtime, back when Polkadot was at block 20 !**

    subwasm get brew tap chevdor/subwasm --block 0x4d6a0bca208b85d41833a7f35cf73d1ae6974f4bad8ab576e2c3f751d691fe6c

By default, your runtime will be saved as `runtime_000.wasm`. Running this command again will increase the counter so we you don’t lose your previous runtime. You may also use the `--output` flag to provide the destination and filename of your choice. Beware, in this case, there will be no incremented counter.

**Get quick check of a runtime**

    # Show the runtime version and exit with status 0
    subwasm info --input kusama-2030.wasm

    # Provide a few explanations and exit with a status that is not 0
    subwasm info --input tictactoe.wasm

### Metadata JSON and jq tricks

`jq` can be used to reprocess the json output. For instance, removing all the documentation from the metadata makes it significantly smaller. The example below shows how to remove `documentation`, `value` and `default` making it much easier on the eyes for human parsing…​

        subwasm --json meta runtime.wasm | jq 'del( .. | .documentation?, .default?, .value? )'

## Alternatives

Here is a list of other projects allowing to get the raw metadata through a rpc call:

-   [PolkadotJS](https://github.com/polkadot-js/apps) from Jaco / Parity

-   [subsee](https://github.com/ascjones/subsee) from Andrew / Parity

-   [substrate-api-client](https://github.com/scs/substrate-api-client) from SCS

-   [subxt](https://github.com/paritytech/substrate-subxt) from Parity

All those alternatives require a running node and access it via jsonrpc.

Commit message:

Allow customizing the `authorize_upgrade_prefix`

README.md, after:

# subwasm

![badge](https://github.com/chevdor/subwasm/actions/workflows/quick-check.yml/badge.svg?branch=master)

![Logo 1024](resources/logos/Logo_1024.png)

Unfortunately, the crate of the project and its dependencies are squatted on crates.io. The squatter remains unresponsive and the crates.io team does not care. I strongly recommend NOT to install the old version from crates.io. Check the [Install](#_install) chapter below to see how to install from this repo or use the official binary packages.

## Introduction

The metadata of a given runtime is a critical piece of information as it describes how one can interact with the runtime, what operations are possible and what are the signatures of the calls. It contains the exhaustive list of all the features publicly exposed by the runtime.

This tool only works with Substrate-based runtimes which are `>=V11`. For earlier versions, you’ll need to connect to an archive node.

Any node can be queried to provide its current metadata. This can be displayed in json format for instance. This is a great way to have a peek at what the runtime can do.

## Sample runs

![subwasm get](scripts/demos/gif/demo-get.gif)

![subwasm info](scripts/demos/gif/demo-info.gif)

![subwasm meta](scripts/demos/gif/demo-meta.gif)

![subwasm diff](scripts/demos/gif/demo-diff.gif)

## Capabilities

`subwasm` allows:

-   getting the latest metadata from a running node

-   getting the latest runtime (wasm) from a running node

-   getting runtime and metadata at any point of time using a Block hash as reference

-   getting the metadata from a a wasm file without any node

-   extracting information (those not requiring storage) from a runtime as wasm file

-   (de)compress a given runtime WASM

## Install

### Using Cargo

    cargo install --locked --git https://github.com/chevdor/subwasm --tag v0.16.1

### Homebrew

MacOS Homebrew users can use:

    brew tap chevdor/subwasm https://github.com/chevdor/subwasm
    brew install subwasm

### Linux

    wget https://github.com/chevdor/subwasm/releases/download/v0.16.1/subwasm_linux_amd64_v0.16.1 -O subwasm.deb
    sudo dpkg -i subwasm.deb
    subwasm --help

## Usage

### Command: --help

    subwasm 0.17.1
    chevdor <chevdor@gmail.com>:Wilfried Kopp <wilfried@parity.io
    `subwasm` allows fetching, parsing and calling some methods on WASM runtimes of Substrate based
    chains

    USAGE:
        subwasm [OPTIONS] <SUBCOMMAND>

    OPTIONS:
        -h, --help       Print help information
        -j, --json       Output as json
        -q, --quiet      Less output
        -V, --version    Print version information

    SUBCOMMANDS:
        compress      Compress a given runtime wasm file. You will get an error if you try
                          compressing a runtime that is already compressed
        decompress    Decompress a given runtime wasm file. You may pass a runtime that is
                          uncompressed already. In that case, you will get the same content as output.
                          This is useful if you want to decompress "no matter what" and don't really
                          know whether the input will be compressed or not
        diff          Compare 2 runtimes
        get           Get/Download the runtime wasm from a running node through rpc
        help          Print this message or the help of the given subcommand(s)
        info          The `info` command returns summarized information about a runtime
        metadata      Returns the metadata as a json object. You may also use the "meta" alias

### Command: get

    subwasm-get 0.17.1
    chevdor <chevdor@gmail.com>:Wilfried Kopp <wilfried@parity.io
    Get/Download the runtime wasm from a running node through rpc

    USAGE:
        subwasm get [OPTIONS] [URL]

    ARGS:
        <URL>    The node url including (mandatory) the port number. Example: ws://localhost:9944 or
                 http://localhost:9933 [default: http://localhost:9933]

    OPTIONS:
        -b, --block <BLOCK>      The optional block where to fetch the runtime. That allows fetching
                                 older runtimes but you will need to connect to archive nodes.
                                 Currently, you must pass a block hash. Passing the block numbers is not
                                 supported
            --chain <CHAIN>      Provide the name of a chain and a random url amongst a list of known
                                 nodes will be used. If you pass a valid --chain, --url will be ignored
                                 --chain local = http://localhost:9933
        -h, --help               Print help information
        -j, --json               Output as json
        -o, --output <OUTPUT>    You may specifiy the output filename where the runtime will be saved.
                                 If not provided, we will figure out an appropriate default name based
                                 on a counter: runtime_NNN.wasm where NNN is incrementing to make sure
                                 you do not override previous runtime. If you specify an existing file
                                 as output, it will be overwritten
        -V, --version            Print version information

### Command: info

    subwasm-info 0.17.1
    chevdor <chevdor@gmail.com>:Wilfried Kopp <wilfried@parity.io
    The `info` command returns summarized information about a runtime

    USAGE:
        subwasm info [OPTIONS] [SOURCE]

    ARGS:
        <SOURCE>    The wasm file to load. It can be a path on your local filesystem such as
                    /tmp/runtime.wasm or a node url such as http://localhost:9933 or
                    ws://localhost:9944 [default: runtime_000.wasm]

    OPTIONS:
        -b, --block <BLOCK>    The optional block where to fetch the runtime. That allows fetching older
                               runtimes but you will need to connect to archive nodes. Currently, you
                               must pass a block hash. Passing the block numbers is not supported
            --chain <CHAIN>    Provide the name of a chain and a random url amongst a list of known
                               nodes will be used. If you pass a valid --chain, --url will be ignored
                               --chain local = http://localhost:9933
        -h, --help             Print help information
        -j, --json             Output as json
        -V, --version          Print version information

By default, the ID for the Parachain pallet is expected to be `0x01` and the call ID for `authorize_upgrade` is expected to be `0x03`.
This default behavior can be overriden by setting the `PARACHAIN_PALLET_ID` to the ID of your parachain pallet and the `AUTHORIZE_UPGRADE_PREFIX` to the ID of your choice.

### Command: meta

    subwasm-metadata 0.17.1
    chevdor <chevdor@gmail.com>:Wilfried Kopp <wilfried@parity.io
    Returns the metadata as a json object. You may also use the "meta" alias

    USAGE:
        subwasm metadata [OPTIONS] [SOURCE]

    ARGS:
        <SOURCE>    The wasm file to load. It can be a path on your local filesystem such as
                    /tmp/runtime.wasm or a node url such as http://localhost:9933 or
                    ws://localhost:9944 [default: runtime_000.wasm]

    OPTIONS:
        -b, --block <BLOCK>      The optional block where to fetch the runtime. That allows fetching
                                 older runtimes but you will need to connect to archive nodes.
                                 Currently, you must pass a block hash. Passing the block numbers is not
                                 supported
            --chain <CHAIN>      Provide the name of a chain and a random url amongst a list of known
                                 nodes will be used. If you pass a valid --chain, --url will be ignored
                                 --chain local = http://localhost:9933
        -h, --help               Print help information
        -j, --json               Output as json
        -m, --module <MODULE>    Without this flag, the metadata command display the list of all
                                 modules. Using this flag, you will only see the module of your choice
                                 and a few details about it
        -V, --version            Print version information

### Command: diff

    subwasm-diff 0.17.1
    chevdor <chevdor@gmail.com>:Wilfried Kopp <wilfried@parity.io
    Compare 2 runtimes

    USAGE:
        subwasm diff [OPTIONS] [ARGS]

    ARGS:
        <SRC_A>    The first source [default: runtime_000.wasm]
        <SRC_B>    The second source [default: runtime_001.wasm]

    OPTIONS:
        -a, --chain-a <CHAIN_A>    Provide the name of a chain and a random url amongst a list of known
                                   nodes will be used. If you pass a valid --chain, --url will be
                                   ignored --chain local = http://localhost:9933
        -b, --chain-b <CHAIN_B>    Provide the name of a chain and a random url amongst a list of known
                                   nodes will be used. If you pass a valid --chain, --url will be
                                   ignored --chain local = http://localhost:9933
        -h, --help                 Print help information
        -j, --json                 Output as json
        -V, --version              Print version information

### Command: compress

    subwasm-compress 0.17.1
    chevdor <chevdor@gmail.com>:Wilfried Kopp <wilfried@parity.io
    Compress a given runtime wasm file. You will get an error if you try compressing a runtime that is
    already compressed

    USAGE:
        subwasm compress [OPTIONS] <INPUT> <OUTPUT>

    ARGS:
        <INPUT>     The path of uncompressed wasm file to load
        <OUTPUT>    The path of the file where the compressed runtime will be stored

    OPTIONS:
        -h, --help       Print help information
        -j, --json       Output as json
        -V, --version    Print version information

### Command: decompress

    subwasm-decompress 0.17.1
    chevdor <chevdor@gmail.com>:Wilfried Kopp <wilfried@parity.io
    Decompress a given runtime wasm file. You may pass a runtime that is uncompressed already. In that
    case, you will get the same content as output. This is useful if you want to decompress "no matter
    what" and don't really know whether the input will be compressed or not

    USAGE:
        subwasm decompress [OPTIONS] <INPUT> <OUTPUT>

    ARGS:
        <INPUT>     The path of the compressed or uncompressed wasm file to load
        <OUTPUT>    The path of the file where the uncompressed runtime will be stored

    OPTIONS:
        -h, --help       Print help information
        -j, --json       Output as json
        -V, --version    Print version information

### Environment variables

In addition to the command line flags, you can also pass one of the following ENV variables:

    # This is a sample .env file. It is not needed if you
    # are using defaults if you want to use the default defined
    # below.

    # POLKADOT_HTTP=http://localhost:9933
    # POLKADOT_WS=ws://localhost:9944
    # PARACHAIN_PALLET_ID=0x01
    # AUTHORIZE_UPGRADE_PREFIX=0x03

## Sample runs

**Fetch a runtime from a running node**

We will start by fetching the runtime from a node.

Please note that you will likely need to connect to an **archive** node to retrieve an older runtime (`<V11`). A runtime takes around 2MB of storage on-chain and thus, older versions are pruned and will no longer be accessible if you are connecting to a non-archive node.

**Here we get the latest version of the runtime, the 3 commands do the same since they all use the default values:**

    subwasm get
    subwasm get --url http://localhost:9933
    subwasm get --url http://localhost:9933 --output runtime_000.wasm

**Here we get an older runtime, back when Polkadot was at block 20 !**

    subwasm get brew tap chevdor/subwasm --block 0x4d6a0bca208b85d41833a7f35cf73d1ae6974f4bad8ab576e2c3f751d691fe6c

By default, your runtime will be saved as `runtime_000.wasm`. Running this command again will increase the counter so we you don’t lose your previous runtime. You may also use the `--output` flag to provide the destination and filename of your choice. Beware, in this case, there will be no incremented counter.

**Get quick check of a runtime**

    # Show the runtime version and exit with status 0
    subwasm info --input kusama-2030.wasm

    # Provide a few explanations and exit with a status that is not 0
    subwasm info --input tictactoe.wasm

### Metadata JSON and jq tricks

`jq` can be used to reprocess the json output. For instance, removing all the documentation from the metadata makes it significantly smaller. The example below shows how to remove `documentation`, `value` and `default` making it much easier on the eyes for human parsing…​

        subwasm --json meta runtime.wasm | jq 'del( .. | .documentation?, .default?, .value? )'

## Alternatives

Here is a list of other projects allowing to get the raw metadata through a rpc call:

-   [PolkadotJS](https://github.com/polkadot-js/apps) from Jaco / Parity

-   [subsee](https://github.com/ascjones/subsee) from Andrew / Parity

-   [substrate-api-client](https://github.com/scs/substrate-api-client) from SCS

-   [subxt](https://github.com/paritytech/substrate-subxt) from Parity

All those alternatives require a running node and access it via jsonrpc.
