README_src.adoc, before:

= subwasm
:toc: right
:prj: pass:q[`subwasm`]
:cmd: subwasm
:version: v0.16.1

image::https://github.com/chevdor/subwasm/actions/workflows/quick-check.yml/badge.svg?branch=master[link="https://github.com/chevdor/subwasm/actions/workflows/quick-check.yml"]

image::resources/logos/Logo_1024.png[align="center", width="50%"]

WARNING: Unfortunately, the crate of the project and its dependencies are squatted on crates.io. The squatter remains unresponsive and the crates.io team does not care. I strongly recommend NOT to install the old version from crates.io. Check the <<Install>> chapter below to see how to install from this repo or use the official binary packages.

== Introduction

The metadata of a given runtime is a critical piece of information as it describes how one can interact with the runtime, what operations are possible and what are the signatures of the calls. It contains the exhaustive list of all the features publicly exposed by the runtime.

NOTE: This tool only works with Substrate-based runtimes which are `>=V11`. For earlier versions, you'll need to connect to an archive node.

Any node can be queried to provide its current metadata. This can be displayed in json format for instance. This is a great way to have a peek at what the runtime can do.

== Sample runs

.Get a runtime
image::scripts/demos/gif/demo-get.gif[title="subwasm get"]

.info command
image::scripts/demos/gif/demo-info.gif[title="subwasm info"]

.meta command
image::scripts/demos/gif/demo-meta.gif[title="subwasm meta"]

.diff command
image::scripts/demos/gif/demo-diff.gif[title="subwasm diff"]

== Capabilities

{prj} allows:

- getting the latest metadata from a running node
- getting the latest runtime (wasm) from a running node
- getting runtime and metadata at any point of time using a Block hash as reference
- getting the metadata from a a wasm file without any node
- extracting information (those not requiring storage) from a runtime as wasm file
- (de)compress a given runtime WASM

== Install

=== Using Cargo

[subs="attributes+"]
----
cargo install --locked --git https://github.com/chevdor/subwasm --tag {version}
----

=== Homebrew

MacOS Homebrew users can use:

    brew tap chevdor/subwasm https://github.com/chevdor/subwasm
    brew install subwasm

=== Linux

[subs="attributes+"]
----
wget https://github.com/chevdor/subwasm/releases/download/{version}/subwasm_linux_amd64_{version} -O subwasm.deb
sudo dpkg -i subwasm.deb
subwasm --help
----

== Usage

=== Command: --help
----
include::doc/usage.adoc[]
----

=== Command: get
----
include::doc/usage_get.adoc[]
----

=== Command: info
----
include::doc/usage_info.adoc[]
----

=== Command: meta
----
include::doc/usage_meta.adoc[]
----

=== Command: diff
----
include::doc/usage_diff.adoc[]
----

=== Command: compress
----
include::doc/usage_compress.adoc[]
----

=== Command: decompress
----
include::doc/usage_decompress.adoc[]
----

== Sample runs

.Fetch a runtime from a running node

We will start by fetching the runtime from a node.

NOTE: Please note that you will likely need to connect to an **archive** node to retrieve an older runtime (`<V11`). A runtime takes around 2MB of storage on-chain and thus, older versions are pruned and will no longer be accessible if you are connecting to a non-archive node.

.Here we get the latest version of the runtime, the 3 commands do the same since they all use the default values:

    subwasm get
    subwasm get --url http://localhost:9933
    subwasm get --url http://localhost:9933 --output runtime_000.wasm

.Here we get an older runtime, back when Polkadot was at block 20 !

    subwasm get brew tap chevdor/subwasm --block 0x4d6a0bca208b85d41833a7f35cf73d1ae6974f4bad8ab576e2c3f751d691fe6c

NOTE: By default, your runtime will be saved as `runtime_000.wasm`. Running this command again will increase the counter so we you don't lose your previous runtime. You may also use the `--output` flag to provide the destination and filename of your choice. Beware, in this case, there will be no incremented counter.

.Get quick check of a runtime

[subs="attributes+"]
----
# Show the runtime version and exit with status 0
{cmd} info --input kusama-2030.wasm

# Provide a few explanations and exit with a status that is not 0
{cmd} info --input tictactoe.wasm
----

=== Metadata JSON and jq tricks

TIP: `jq` can be used to reprocess the json output. For instance, removing all the documentation from the metadata makes it significantly smaller. The example below shows how to remove `documentation`, `value` and `default` making it much easier on the eyes for human parsing...

[subs="attributes+"]
----
    {cmd} --json meta runtime.wasm | jq 'del( .. | .documentation?, .default?, .value? )'
----

== Alternatives

Here is a list of other projects allowing to get the raw metadata through a rpc call:

 - https://github.com/polkadot-js/apps[PolkadotJS] from Jaco / Parity
 - https://github.com/ascjones/subsee[subsee] from Andrew / Parity
 - https://github.com/scs/substrate-api-client[substrate-api-client] from SCS
 - https://github.com/paritytech/substrate-subxt[subxt] from Parity

All those alternatives require a running node and access it via jsonrpc.

Commit message:

Allow user overriding the Parachain Pallet Id (#46)
* Allow user overriding the Parachain Pallet Id

fix #45

* Allow customizing the `authorize_upgrade_prefix`

README_src.adoc, after:

= subwasm
:toc: right
:prj: pass:q[`subwasm`]
:cmd: subwasm
:version: v0.16.1

image::https://github.com/chevdor/subwasm/actions/workflows/quick-check.yml/badge.svg?branch=master[link="https://github.com/chevdor/subwasm/actions/workflows/quick-check.yml"]

image::resources/logos/Logo_1024.png[align="center", width="50%"]

WARNING: Unfortunately, the crate of the project and its dependencies are squatted on crates.io. The squatter remains unresponsive and the crates.io team does not care. I strongly recommend NOT to install the old version from crates.io. Check the <<Install>> chapter below to see how to install from this repo or use the official binary packages.

== Introduction

The metadata of a given runtime is a critical piece of information as it describes how one can interact with the runtime, what operations are possible and what are the signatures of the calls. It contains the exhaustive list of all the features publicly exposed by the runtime.

NOTE: This tool only works with Substrate-based runtimes which are `>=V11`. For earlier versions, you'll need to connect to an archive node.

Any node can be queried to provide its current metadata. This can be displayed in json format for instance. This is a great way to have a peek at what the runtime can do.

== Sample runs

.Get a runtime
image::scripts/demos/gif/demo-get.gif[title="subwasm get"]

.info command
image::scripts/demos/gif/demo-info.gif[title="subwasm info"]

.meta command
image::scripts/demos/gif/demo-meta.gif[title="subwasm meta"]

.diff command
image::scripts/demos/gif/demo-diff.gif[title="subwasm diff"]

== Capabilities

{prj} allows:

- getting the latest metadata from a running node
- getting the latest runtime (wasm) from a running node
- getting runtime and metadata at any point of time using a Block hash as reference
- getting the metadata from a a wasm file without any node
- extracting information (those not requiring storage) from a runtime as wasm file
- (de)compress a given runtime WASM

== Install

=== Using Cargo

[subs="attributes+"]
----
cargo install --locked --git https://github.com/chevdor/subwasm --tag {version}
----

=== Homebrew

MacOS Homebrew users can use:

    brew tap chevdor/subwasm https://github.com/chevdor/subwasm
    brew install subwasm

=== Linux

[subs="attributes+"]
----
wget https://github.com/chevdor/subwasm/releases/download/{version}/subwasm_linux_amd64_{version} -O subwasm.deb
sudo dpkg -i subwasm.deb
subwasm --help
----

== Usage

=== Command: --help
----
include::doc/usage.adoc[]
----

=== Command: get
----
include::doc/usage_get.adoc[]
----

=== Command: info
----
include::doc/usage_info.adoc[]
----

NOTE: By default, the ID for the Parachain pallet is expected to be `0x01` and the call ID for `authorize_upgrade` is expected to be `0x03`.
This default behavior can be overriden by setting the `PARACHAIN_PALLET_ID` to the ID of your parachain pallet and the `AUTHORIZE_UPGRADE_PREFIX` to the ID of your choice.

=== Command: meta
----
include::doc/usage_meta.adoc[]
----

=== Command: diff
----
include::doc/usage_diff.adoc[]
----

=== Command: compress
----
include::doc/usage_compress.adoc[]
----

=== Command: decompress
----
include::doc/usage_decompress.adoc[]
----

=== Environment variables

In addition to the command line flags, you can also pass one of the following ENV variables:

----
include::.env-sample[]
----

== Sample runs

.Fetch a runtime from a running node

We will start by fetching the runtime from a node.

NOTE: Please note that you will likely need to connect to an **archive** node to retrieve an older runtime (`<V11`). A runtime takes around 2MB of storage on-chain and thus, older versions are pruned and will no longer be accessible if you are connecting to a non-archive node.

.Here we get the latest version of the runtime, the 3 commands do the same since they all use the default values:

    subwasm get
    subwasm get --url http://localhost:9933
    subwasm get --url http://localhost:9933 --output runtime_000.wasm

.Here we get an older runtime, back when Polkadot was at block 20 !

    subwasm get brew tap chevdor/subwasm --block 0x4d6a0bca208b85d41833a7f35cf73d1ae6974f4bad8ab576e2c3f751d691fe6c

NOTE: By default, your runtime will be saved as `runtime_000.wasm`. Running this command again will increase the counter so we you don't lose your previous runtime. You may also use the `--output` flag to provide the destination and filename of your choice. Beware, in this case, there will be no incremented counter.

.Get quick check of a runtime

[subs="attributes+"]
----
# Show the runtime version and exit with status 0
{cmd} info --input kusama-2030.wasm

# Provide a few explanations and exit with a status that is not 0
{cmd} info --input tictactoe.wasm
----

=== Metadata JSON and jq tricks

TIP: `jq` can be used to reprocess the json output. For instance, removing all the documentation from the metadata makes it significantly smaller. The example below shows how to remove `documentation`, `value` and `default` making it much easier on the eyes for human parsing...

[subs="attributes+"]
----
    {cmd} --json meta runtime.wasm | jq 'del( .. | .documentation?, .default?, .value? )'
----

== Alternatives

Here is a list of other projects allowing to get the raw metadata through a rpc call:

 - https://github.com/polkadot-js/apps[PolkadotJS] from Jaco / Parity
 - https://github.com/ascjones/subsee[subsee] from Andrew / Parity
 - https://github.com/scs/substrate-api-client[substrate-api-client] from SCS
 - https://github.com/paritytech/substrate-subxt[subxt] from Parity

All those alternatives require a running node and access it via jsonrpc.
