doc/usage_version.adoc, before:

The `version` command returns summarized information about the versions of a runtime

Usage: subwasm version [OPTIONS] [FILE]

Arguments:
  [FILE]
          The wasm file to load. It can be a path on your local filesystem such /tmp/runtime.wasm
          
          You may also fetch the runtime remotely, see `chain` and `url` flags.

Options:
  -c, --chain <CHAIN>
          Load the wasm from an RPC node url such as http://localhost:9933 or ws://localhost:9944, a node alias such as "polkadot" or "dot",
          
          NOTE: --chain local = http://localhost:9933

  -b, --block <BLOCK>
          The optional block where to fetch the runtime. That allows fetching older runtimes but you will need to connect to archive nodes. Currently, you must pass a block hash. Passing the block numbers is not supported

  -u, --url <URL>
          Load the wasm from a URL (no node) such as <https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot/releases/download/v0.9.42/polkadot_runtime-v9420.compact.compressed.wasm>

  -g, --github <GITHUB>
          Load the wasm from Github passing a string in the format `<runtime>@<version>` such as `kusama@0.9.42`

  -j, --json
          Output as json

  -n, --no-color
          [env: NO_COLOR=]

  -q, --quiet
          Less output

  -h, --help
          Print help (see a summary with '-h')

Commit message:

ENV: AUTHORIZE_UPGRADE_CHECK_VERSION
* Add flag for new check_version
* Remove unused stuff
* Fix readme
* Fix doc and linting issue, update deps
* Update usage and docs

---------

Co-authored-by: Antonio Antonino <antonio@kilt.io>

doc/usage_version.adoc, after:

Shows information about a given runtime

Usage: subwasm version [OPTIONS] [FILE]

Arguments:
  [FILE]
          The wasm file to load. It can be a path on your local filesystem such /tmp/runtime.wasm
          
          You may also fetch the runtime remotely, see `chain` and `url` flags.

Options:
  -c, --chain <CHAIN>
          Load the wasm from an RPC node url such as http://localhost:9933 or ws://localhost:9944, a node alias such as "polkadot" or "dot",
          
          NOTE: --chain local = http://localhost:9933

  -b, --block <BLOCK>
          The optional block where to fetch the runtime. That allows fetching older runtimes but you will need to connect to archive nodes. Currently, you must pass a block hash. Passing the block numbers is not supported

  -u, --url <URL>
          Load the wasm from a URL (no node) such as <https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot/releases/download/v0.9.42/polkadot_runtime-v9420.compact.compressed.wasm>

  -g, --github <GITHUB>
          Load the wasm from Github passing a string in the format `<runtime>@<version>` such as `kusama@0.9.42`

  -j, --json
          Output as json

  -n, --no-color
          Do not write color information to the output. This is recommended for scripts
          
          [env: NO_COLOR=]

  -q, --quiet
          Less output

  -h, --help
          Print help (see a summary with '-h')
