doc/usage.adoc, before:

subwasm 0.18.0
chevdor <chevdor@gmail.com>:Wilfried Kopp <wilfried@parity.io
`subwasm` allows fetching, parsing and calling some methods on WASM runtimes of Substrate based
chains

USAGE:
    subwasm [OPTIONS] <SUBCOMMAND>

OPTIONS:
    -h, --help       Print help information
    -j, --json       Output as json
    -q, --quiet      Less output
    -V, --version    Print version information

SUBCOMMANDS:
    compress      Compress a given runtime wasm file. You will get an error if you try
                      compressing a runtime that is already compressed
    decompress    Decompress a given runtime wasm file. You may pass a runtime that is
                      uncompressed already. In that case, you will get the same content as output.
                      This is useful if you want to decompress "no matter what" and don't really
                      know whether the input will be compressed or not
    diff          Compare 2 runtimes
    get           Get/Download the runtime wasm from a running node through rpc
    help          Print this message or the help of the given subcommand(s)
    info          The `info` command returns summarized information about a runtime
    metadata      Returns the metadata as a json object. You may also use the "meta" alias
    version       The `version` command returns summarized information about the versions of a
                      runtime

Commit message:

Add new show-reduced command

doc/usage.adoc, after:

[0m`subwasm` allows fetching, parsing and calling some methods on WASM runtimes of Substrate based chains[0m[0m
[0m[0m
[0m[0m[1m[4mUsage:[0m[0m [0m[0m[1msubwasm[0m[0m [OPTIONS][0m[0m <[0m[0mCOMMAND[0m[0m>[0m[0m

[0m[0m[1m[4mCommands[0m[0m[1m[4m:
[0m[0m  [0m[0m[1mget[0m[0m           [0m[0mGet/Download the runtime wasm from a running node through rpc[0m[0m
[0m[0m  [0m[0m[1minfo[0m[0m          [0m[0mThe `info` command returns summarized information about a runtime[0m[0m
[0m[0m  [0m[0m[1mversion[0m[0m       [0m[0mThe `version` command returns summarized information about the versions of a runtime[0m[0m
[0m[0m  [0m[0m[1mmetadata[0m[0m      [0m[0mReturns the metadata as a json object. You may also use the "meta" alias. It is no longer possible to have a "printable" output, for that, please use the 'show-reduced' sub-command[0m[0m
[0m[0m  [0m[0m[1mshow-reduced[0m[0m  [0m[0mShows the ReducedRuntime[0m[0m
[0m[0m  [0m[0m[1mdiff[0m[0m          [0m[0mCompare 2 runtimes after converting them to ReducedRuntime[0m[0m
[0m[0m  [0m[0m[1mcompress[0m[0m      [0m[0mCompress a given runtime wasm file. You will get an error if you try compressing a runtime that is already compressed[0m[0m
[0m[0m  [0m[0m[1mdecompress[0m[0m    [0m[0mDecompress a given runtime wasm file. You may pass a runtime that is uncompressed already. In that case, you will get the same content as output. This is useful if you want to decompress "no matter what" and don't really know whether the input will be compressed or not[0m[0m
[0m[0m  [0m[0m[1mhelp[0m[0m          [0m[0mPrint this message or the help of the given subcommand(s)[0m[0m

[0m[0m[1m[4mOptions:
[0m[0m  [0m[0m[1m-j[0m[0m, [0m[0m[1m--json[0m[0m      [0m[0mOutput as json[0m[0m
[0m[0m  [0m[0m[1m-q[0m[0m, [0m[0m[1m--quiet[0m[0m     [0m[0mLess output[0m[0m
[0m[0m  [0m[0m[1m-n[0m[0m, [0m[0m[1m--no-color[0m[0m  [0m[0m[env: NO_COLOR=][0m[0m
[0m[0m  [0m[0m[1m-h[0m[0m, [0m[0m[1m--help[0m[0m      [0m[0mPrint help information[0m[0m
[0m[0m  [0m[0m[1m-V[0m[0m, [0m[0m[1m--version[0m[0m   [0m[0mPrint version information[0m[0m
[0m
