doc/usage_info.adoc, before:

subwasm-info 0.18.0
chevdor <chevdor@gmail.com>:Wilfried Kopp <wilfried@parity.io
The `info` command returns summarized information about a runtime

USAGE:
    subwasm info [OPTIONS] [SOURCE]

ARGS:
    <SOURCE>    The wasm file to load. It can be a path on your local filesystem such as
                /tmp/runtime.wasm or a node url such as http://localhost:9933 or
                ws://localhost:9944 [default: runtime_000.wasm]

OPTIONS:
    -b, --block <BLOCK>    The optional block where to fetch the runtime. That allows fetching older
                           runtimes but you will need to connect to archive nodes. Currently, you
                           must pass a block hash. Passing the block numbers is not supported
        --chain <CHAIN>    Provide the name of a chain and a random url amongst a list of known
                           nodes will be used. If you pass a valid --chain, --url will be ignored
                           --chain local = http://localhost:9933
    -h, --help             Print help information
    -j, --json             Output as json
    -V, --version          Print version information

Commit message:

Add new show-reduced command

doc/usage_info.adoc, after:

[0mThe `info` command returns summarized information about a runtime[0m[0m
[0m[0m
[0m[0m[1m[4mUsage:[0m[0m [0m[0m[1msubwasm info[0m[0m [OPTIONS][0m[0m [0m[0m[SOURCE][0m[0m

[0m[0m[1m[4mArguments:
[0m[0m  [0m[0m[SOURCE][0m[0m  [0m[0mThe wasm file to load. It can be a path on your local filesystem such as /tmp/runtime.wasm or a node url such as http://localhost:9933 or ws://localhost:9944[0m[0m [0m[0m[default: runtime_000.wasm][0m[0m

[0m[0m[1m[4mOptions:
[0m[0m  [0m[0m    [0m[0m[1m--chain[0m[0m [0m[0m<CHAIN>[0m[0m  [0m[0mProvide the name of a chain and a random url amongst a list of known nodes will be used. If you pass a valid --chain, --url will be ignored --chain local = http://localhost:9933[0m[0m
[0m[0m  [0m[0m[1m-j[0m[0m, [0m[0m[1m--json[0m[0m           [0m[0mOutput as json[0m[0m
[0m[0m  [0m[0m[1m-b[0m[0m, [0m[0m[1m--block[0m[0m [0m[0m<BLOCK>[0m[0m  [0m[0mThe optional block where to fetch the runtime. That allows fetching older runtimes but you will need to connect to archive nodes. Currently, you must pass a block hash. Passing the block numbers is not supported[0m[0m
[0m[0m  [0m[0m[1m-q[0m[0m, [0m[0m[1m--quiet[0m[0m          [0m[0mLess output[0m[0m
[0m[0m  [0m[0m[1m-n[0m[0m, [0m[0m[1m--no-color[0m[0m       [0m[0m[env: NO_COLOR=][0m[0m
[0m[0m  [0m[0m[1m-h[0m[0m, [0m[0m[1m--help[0m[0m           [0m[0mPrint help information[0m[0m
[0m[0m  [0m[0m[1m-V[0m[0m, [0m[0m[1m--version[0m[0m        [0m[0mPrint version information[0m[0m
[0m
